Cell passaging steps in 24 well plates 

 

    *Mix full volume media in well 1 time slowly – to lift floating cells into liquid 

    Remove and discard full volume media from well slowly – to remove old media without removing attached cells 

    Add 1ml DPBS against well wall slowly – to dilute residual media 

    *Mix full volume DPBS in well 3 times slowly – to dilute residual media and lift floating cells into liquid 

    Remove and discard full volume DPBS from well slowly – to remove DPBS without removing attached cells 

    If there is residual media (more than ~20-30 ul or so): repeat steps 3-5 

    Add 250ul of trypsin/edta (preferably warm) – volume may need to be adjusted to make sure the cells are fully covered 

    Leave the plate in the robot and wait 5-10 minutes for trypsin to detach the cells – In manual protocol the plate is transferred to the incubator +37C for 5 minutes. At room t it may take longer, but the shorter time, the better for cell health. Too long can start killing the cells, maximum allowable exposure to trypsin (all the steps until add media) is ~15min  

    Mix full volume trypsin in well many (10-20-30?) times vigorously. If not fully lifted, mix in different areas of the well. – ensure that cells have lifted and cell clumps dissociated into single cells. 

    Add equal volume of fresh media - to slow down / deactivate trypsin activity 

     Mix several times 

    Transfer to 1.5ml, 15 or 50 ml tube (dep on the volume) 

    Pause protocol 

    Centrifuge the tube at 200g for 2 minutes (longer for larger volumes). 

    Return to the  

    Remove liquid above the cell pellet – do not remove the cells in the process, residual volume of ~100ul is okay.  

    Add some fresh media (1-5ml volume depends on the expected amount of cells to make an adequate concentration for cell counting) 

    Mix vigorously (10-20-30?) times - until the cell pellet if fully suspended in liquid, no chunks visible.  

    Transfer 10ul to a small tube – for cell counting. To ensure the cells didn’t start to settle when the sample is collected, do it immediately after mixing the cells (ideally not longer than 30 seconds – but this would be a good thing to quantify – to have a better idea of the settling rate). 

    Take the tube and count the cells. 

    Based on the cell count, add an x volume of cells (equivalent to 130K cells) to a 24wp well. 

    Add fresh media to total volume of 1ml. 

    Mix cell suspension at medium speed 3 times.  

    Transfer plate to incubator. 

 